Add zipkin exporter (#625)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby: exporter/zipkin/README.md

# opentelemetry-exporter-zipkin

> The `opentelemetry-exporter-zipkin` gem provides Zipkin exporters for OpenTelemetry for Ruby. Using `opentelemetry-exporter-zipkin`, an application can configure OpenTelemetry to export collected tracing data to [Zipkin][zipkin-home]. One exporter is included: the `Exporter` exports in HTTP JSONformat over TCP to a Zipkin backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `opentelemetry-exporter-zipkin` gem provides Zipkin exporters for OpenTelemetry for Ruby. Using `opentelemetry-exporter-zipkin`, an application can configure OpenTelemetry to export collected tracing data to [Zipkin][zipkin-home]. One exporter is included: the `Exporter` exports in HTTP JSON format over TCP to a Zipkin backend
```

Then, configure the SDK to use a zipkin exporter as a span processor, and use the OpenTelemetry interfaces to produces traces and other information. Following is a basic example for the `AgentExporter`.

```ruby
require 'opentelemetry/sdk'
require 'opentelemetry/exporter/zipkin'

# Configure the sdk with custom export
OpenTelemetry::SDK.configure do |c|
  c.add_span_processor(
    OpenTelemetry::SDK::Trace::Export::BatchSpanProcessor.new(
      OpenTelemetry::Exporter::Zipkin::Exporter.new(endpoint: 'http://192.168.0.1:9411/api/v2/spans' )
    )
  )
  c.service_name = 'zipkin-example'
  c.service_version = '0.15.0'
end

# To start a trace you need to get a Tracer from the TracerProvider
tracer = OpenTelemetry.tracer_provider.tracer('my_app_or_gem', '0.1.0')

# create a span
tracer.in_span('foo') do |span|
  # set an attribute
  span.set_attribute('platform', 'osx')
  # add an event
  span.add_event('event in bar')
  # create bar as child of foo
  tracer.in_span('bar') do |child_span|
    # inspect the span
    pp child_span
  end
end
```

For additional examples, see the [examples on github][examples-github].

## How can I configure the Zipkin exporter?

> TODO

Reviewer: ❓

Author: updated

The `opentelemetry-exporter-zipkin` gem source is [on github][repo-github], along with related gems including `opentelemetry-sdk`.

The OpenTelemetry Ruby gems are maintained by the OpenTelemetry-Ruby special interest group (SIG). You can get involved by joining us on our [gitter channel][ruby-gitter] or attending our weekly meeting. See the [meeting calendar][community-meetings] for dates and times. For more information on this and other language SIGs, see the OpenTelemetry [community page][ruby-sig].

## License

The `opentelemetry-exporter-zipkin` gem is distributed under the Apache 2.0 license. See [LICENSE][license-github] for more information.

[zipkin-home]: https://zipkin.io/
[opentelemetry-home]: https://opentelemetry.io
[bundler-home]: https://bundler.io
[repo-github]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby
[license-github]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby/blob/main/LICENSE
[examples-github]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby/tree/main/examples
[ruby-sig]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/community#ruby-sig
[community-meetings]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/community#community-meetings

> [ruby-gitter]: https://gitter.im/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby/discussions
```

    )
  )
  c.service_name = 'zipkin-example'
  c.service_version = '0.15.0'
end

# To start a trace you need to get a Tracer from the TracerProvider
tracer = OpenTelemetry.tracer_provider.tracer('my_app_or_gem', '0.1.0')

# create a span
tracer.in_span('foo') do |span|
  # set an attribute
  span.set_attribute('platform', 'osx')
  # add an event
  span.add_event('event in bar')
  # create bar as child of foo
  tracer.in_span('bar') do |child_span|
    # inspect the span
    pp child_span
  end
end
```

For additional examples, see the [examples on github][examples-github].

## How can I configure the Zipkin exporter?

The collector exporter can be configured explicitly in code, as shown above, or via environment variables. The configuration parameters, environment variables, and defaults are shown below.

| Parameter   | Environment variable                  | Default                    |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------| -------------------------- |
| `endpoint:` | `OTEL_EXPORTER_ZIPKIN_ENDPOINT`       | `"http://localhost:9411"`  |
| `headers:`  | `OTEL_EXPORTER_ZIPKIN_TRACES_HEADERS` | `nil`                      |

> | `timeoout:` | `OTEL_EXPORTER_ZIPKIN_TRACES_TIMEOUT` | `10`                       |

Reviewer: It's worth adding `OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER=zipkin` here, to make it clear that no code changes are required.

Author: updated
